Hello.
My name is Patrick Collins, and I'm the
Digital Hub Technology Manager in
Developer Relations.
We're going to be covering
DiscRecording APIs today.
So we have the whole burning issue
team here to run through everything.
They'll be here for our
Q&A after the session,
and we'll get started with Drew Thaler.
Thank you.
welcome.
So today we're going to be
talking about disc recording.
My name's Drew Thaler.
My title is Recording Artist.
I work in the Burning Issues
group at Apple Computer,
and we handle everything that has
to do with CD and DVD burning.
So one year ago,
the DiscRecording APIs were
introduced with Jaguar.
So this is our second session.
And we're going to talk about
what went on in the past,
and we're going to talk
about what's new for Panther.
So our topic's in session.
We're going to go over the introduction.
We're going to talk about the new
features in Panther for those of you that
are already familiar with disc recording.
And then we're going to go
ahead and do an overview of the
API covering both old and new stuff.
and we're going to talk about a new
feature which we call device profiles.
That'll be at the end of the session.
So let's talk about disc recording.
What is disc recording?
Well, no one can be told
what disc recording is.
You have to experience it for yourself.
No, no, I'm just kidding, really.
Actually,
you can be told what disc recording is,
and I'm going to do
it here for you today.
Before we talk about
what disc recording is,
though, let's talk about why.
The basic problem that you have to
deal with if you're an application
that wants to provide digital media
on CDs and DVDs is that really
burning discs is actually pretty hard.
It takes several man years of work
to implement all the various levels
of things that you have to do.
You have to talk to many different
layers of the operating system.
You have to do the user interface.
You have to go all the way
down to talking to hardware.
You have to deal with all the layers
of the operating system in between,
including threading, IOCIT,
disc arbitration, things like that.
You have to talk directly to the drives.
Different drives might have
slightly different behaviors.
And you don't necessarily want to
deal with that from your application.
You also have to stream your data from
the beginning of the disk to the end.
A CD is generally not a
random writable thing.
You can't just copy files to it.
You have to start at
block zero of the disk,
stream all the way to the end.
And you also can't just
use normal file systems.
There are specialized file
systems which are designed for
CDs which are cross-platform.
So there's thousands of
pages of specifications.
There's this whole sea of acronyms,
and these are just the
publishers of the specifications,
not even the specifications themselves.
You've got all these color books.
You've got the red book, the yellow book,
the orange book, the green book,
the blue book, the other blue book.
There's a lot of stuff to read,
and you have to pay attention
to every little sentence,
and it's kind of just a big pain.
And lastly, and
and many others.
Very much not least,
since this is the Mac,
your application needs to play nicely
with all the other applications.
You don't want to completely
take over the drive.
You want the user to be able to
seamlessly move between your application,
iTunes, the Finder, whatever else.
So you need to play nice
with the other applications.
So solving that problem,
we really need something that's easy,
that's fast, and that's powerful.
For easy,
it really needs to be accessible
to application developers.
We need something object-oriented
that's going to give you a nice,
high-level, easy-to-interpret view
of the task at hand.
You need to hide the
hardware differences.
You need to have an abstraction layer
that smooths out the differences
between all the devices and just
treats a CD burner as a CD burner.
Because of the things with file systems
and creating the different types of data,
there are some pretty common tasks
in there that would be duplicated.
You don't need every application
to become a master of three
different file system formats.
You just need to-- it would
be nice if there's a helper to
help you do that sort of thing.
Having a common user interface
between applications is good.
It should be kind of fast.
Some applications function by writing
out all the data to disk first,
creating a CD image on the hard drive,
and then sending it to the disc,
sending it to the CD.
And that works, but you wind up touching
the data three times.
Once while you're producing it,
once getting it on and off the disk,
and once sending it to the drive.
And that's actually a lot slower
than just going straight from
content production to the disk.
And it really should be powerful.
You need to be able to
not just burn a folder.
You want to burn exactly
the format of data you want.
You want to be able to
really burn anything.
For people that really know
what they're doing and want
to get down to the guts of it,
they really should be able
to burn anything without
having to go out of their way.
It shouldn't be purely high level.
There should be access
down to the low levels.
So that brings us to
disc recording itself.
So what is disc recording?
Well, to begin with,
it's a device abstraction layer.
There's lots of devices,
there's lots of connection interfaces.
You have USB, you have FireWire.
All these drives might behave a little
differently underneath the hood,
but you don't really
need to worry about that.
There's lots of things like that.
So disc recording is an
abstraction layer that makes it
very easy to talk to devices.
This recording is a
data streaming engine.
Fundamentally, CD burning,
most CD burning is streaming.
You start at the beginning and
you write all the way to the end.
And that involves
real-time data production.
It's a content generator.
Again, generating the content
is not trivially easy.
You have to generate multiple
file systems at the same time,
interleave them on the disk.
And if you're burning an audio CD,
for example,
then you need to take your MP3 file,
decompress it, and send it to the drive.
and it's a system framework.
Most importantly,
Apple has already done all of this
work and we've packaged it all
up for your application to use.
It's the exact same stuff that iTunes,
the Finder,
all of Apple's applications use
and it's available for your use.
So this means for applications that
leverage the DiscRecording services
that burning discs is really natural.
It becomes basically a type of
printing for your digital media.
You produce the content,
whether it's music, whether it's movies,
scientific data, whatever it might be,
and we get it onto the disc for you.
So your application is
integrated into the digital hub.
So for those of you who are a little
bit familiar with DiscRecording already,
we're going to touch upon
the new features in Panther.
So the first thing that's new in
Panther is that disc recording
is now an umbrella framework.
So we've taken some of the
components of disc recording and
broken them up into sub-frameworks.
You might be asking, well,
what does this mean to me?
Really probably not much.
The only thing that it might
have to do with you is if you
include -- if you include a
[Transcript missing]
We've got toll-free bridging.
We have objects in
both C and Objective-C.
In Jaguar, there were separate entities.
In Panther, they're now exactly the same.
A DR track ref is the
same as the DR track.
We've got audio file burning.
So if you're burning
an audio CD from MP3s,
you don't have to write your own
MP3 decompressor or figure out
how to use QuickTime to do it.
We've got that code for you.
We've added some pro audio features,
media catalog number, UPC code,
the international standard
recording code for tracks,
support for the serial
copy management system,
subtract index points,
and you can also specify
your burn strategy,
such as track it once or session it once,
and so on.
We've added Carbon accessors
for the user interface panels.
We've got something that we're
going to talk about at the end of
the session called Device Profiles,
which is the new way that we're
going to be doing device support
basically from Panther onward.
And it's not just this extra
thing that we're giving you.
It's the way Apple's
going to be doing it too.
So we're very interested in making
it work and making it work right.
So for those of you that are
interested in Device Profiles,
we'll be wanting your feedback
at the end of the session.
and we've added a command line
utility to give access to some
of DiscRecording's features.
From the command line.
So let's dig down a little bit into the
API and talk about the general concepts.
So DiscRecording is an
object-oriented API.
It's got these high-level objects.
are available from
both C and Objective-C.
And again, new in Panther,
they're toll-free bridged.
So all the C objects are CF types.
All the Objective-C objects
are obviously NS objects.
The C objects, you know,
since they're CF,
they follow retain release conventions,
they have CF collection support,
there's consistent naming
conventions between them,
between the functions.
In general,
every object has a properties dictionary,
and the properties dictionary
controls its behavior.
So rather than having a whole
bunch of accessor functions,
there's just one dictionary.
You set properties in it,
and when it goes to do something,
it checks the property,
and that's how you control it.
Of course, all the APIs are thread-safe,
so you don't have to worry about calling
stuff re-entrantly or adding all kinds
of extra locks to worry about things.
Everything's thread-safe.
So there are really three main parts
to the DiscRecording architecture.
Down at the bottom,
we have the burn engine.
And the burn engine is
responsible for handling devices,
for burning and erasing.
Those are its primary features.
Building on top of that,
we have the Content Creation APIs.
And these handle file system creation.
And in Panther now,
they handle audio track
creation from an audio file.
Then parallel to that,
also building on top of the burn engine,
we have the user interface.
So we have panels that you can use for
burn setup for progress during a burn.
And these are really
the fundamental tasks.
This is everything you need to do,
hopefully, except for actually
producing your content.
And we've even got stuff to help
you with producing your content.
So let's zoom in on the burn engine
and talk about the objects inside.
So the burn engine handles four things,
really.
I said three before,
but it's really four.
Handles burning, handles erasing.
It handles devices.
It'll tell you about devices,
and you can do certain
things to the devices.
And as part of its device handling,
it handles media arbitration.
So the burn engine is what's
responsible for helping your
application play nice with iTunes
and the Finder and everything else.
This is all done with really
just a small set of objects.
There's four core objects.
Two of them represent actions,
the burn in a race object,
and two of them,
one of them represents your data,
and one of them represents the
device that you're burning to.
You can also sign up for notifications.
And so we have our own
notification center,
which we'll cover in just a moment,
where you can sign up for
notifications on your object.
So the DR burn object
represents the act of burning.
And so you create it,
and then you ask it to write a layout.
And what's a layout?
Well, a layout can be just one track.
If you're perhaps burning a data disk,
it can be multiple tracks.
Say if you're burning
a multi-track audio CD,
can even be an array of array of tracks,
in which case you get multiple sessions.
Now, burn is an asynchronous operation.
So you kick it off,
and it happens on its own thread.
And then you get notifications
for progress and completion.
So you don't have to worry about giving
it time from your user interface.
You can do whatever you need to do.
And we take care of it,
and it just works.
and I are going to talk
about the DR track object.
The DR track object
represents your track.
It could be a CD audio track,
a data track.
It's flexible.
We basically expose a lot of
MMC down in the DR track so you
can really do anything in MMC.
You provide your data through a callback.
and C is a function pointer and
Objective-C is an object in the selector.
We'll call you back at real time during
the burn right when we need the data.
and obviously you might be doing some
sort of computation to produce the data,
perhaps decompression, decrypting,
whatever.
We know that the CPU is not infinite,
so we'll run a production cycle for
you so that you can find out just
how fast you can produce the data.
So you don't need to
do that test yourself.
We've already got the helpers in there
to help you find the maximum data rate.
And that helps us set the burn speed
correctly so that it doesn't underrun.
So we've got the burn object,
we've got the track
which specifies the data,
now we've got the device object.
This represents basically
where you're burning to.
There's one DR device object for
every device that's the burning
device that's attached to the system.
And the DR device object can report
the capabilities of the device,
which are basically
static and unchanging.
Things like this device can write CDRs.
This device can write DVDRs.
It also can tell you about the media
inside the device so that you can find
out whether the disk inside is blank,
whether it's already been burned,
what type it is, whether it's CDR, DVDR,
that sort of thing.
It's also got a few
commands that you can do,
such as opening and closing the tray,
unmounting and ejecting volumes.
And DRDevice will send
its own notifications.
And these are a little different.
So basically, since DRDevice is not
something you create,
it's something that represents
a device that's on the system.
Well, we live in a dynamic world,
and the user can go ahead and plug
devices in and pop them out at any time
with firmware and technologies like that.
So we'll send you a notification
when a device shows up.
We'll send you a notification
when a device goes away.
So you don't have to sit there
and keep pulling the list
will tell you when it changes.
We also will tell you when media comes
and goes because that's something
else that you might need to pull for.
Well, you don't need to pull.
We do it all with notifications.
And it'll tell you when
devices come and go,
when devices are available or not.
For example, if iTunes is running
and it's doing a burn,
well, you can't really do anything to the
device while iTunes is doing a burn.
So the device goes busy for
the duration of that burn.
Then it comes back afterwards.
And we'll send you a
notification when it goes busy.
We'll send you a notification
when it's available again.
To handle all these notifications
that I've been talking about,
we've got the DR Notification Center.
If you've used the NS and
CF Notification Centers,
those are pretty much the same thing.
They have basically the same interface.
There's a couple of details of
the implementation that differ.
For one thing,
DR Notification Center was designed
for inter-thread notifications.
We're doing the burn up on a
high-priority real-time thread,
and we're sending notifications
back to you on your main thread.
So obviously, the burn thread can't stop
and wait for your main thread.
So the Notification
Center sits in the middle,
and it'll throttle things.
and coalesce multiple notifications
into a single one if you're
updating your UI or whatever else.
and even though we'll coalesce
some of the notifications,
we guarantee delivery for
all the important ones.
You know, if the burn,
if we send notifications
for 1%, 2%, and 3% complete,
you can miss one and two as
long as you get 3%. But if,
for example, the burn finishes, well,
that's, you know,
that's an important notification.
We guarantee delivery of that one.
So you can use these notifications
to key off the state,
to understand the state
of all the objects.
So you'll get all the
important transitions.
and this is really strongly recommended.
Sometimes it's easier to
write the code that pulls.
The problem with the pulling code
is that sometimes you wind up in
a state where things happen just
a little too quickly and you don't
pick up what happens on the pulling.
If you sign up for notifications,
we'll make sure that you get
all the notifications you need.
So we've got our core objects
here that we need for a burn.
So let's look at how a burn works.
So up at the top,
we've got your application.
You're going to create a burn object,
which represents the act of your burn.
And you're going to
associate it with a device.
You look at the devices on the system,
pick one.
And then you set properties on the burn,
for example,
whether or not you want to verify
the speed at which you want to burn,
and so on.
And then you tell the
burn to write a layout.
The layout is down at the bottom.
In this case,
it's an array of three DR tracks.
So the burn starts to write,
and as it goes,
it sends notifications over
to the Notification Center.
The Notification Center then relays them
to your application on its main thread,
or whatever thread you chose.
And that's basically how the burn works.
When the burn completes,
one last notification goes
up to your application,
and then it's done.
So erasing is really a lot like burning.
There's not a lot of surprises here.
It represents an erase
rather than a burn.
Again, it's an asynchronous operation.
You start it with one call, kick it off,
goes up, happens in the background.
We'll send you notifications
for progress and when it's done.
So if we look at the anatomy of an erase,
it's pretty much the same thing,
only without the data.
You have your application,
your erase that you set properties
on associated with the device.
Notifications go through and
get up to your application.
So we're going to give a little
demonstration of how the device
notifications work in the burn engine,
just to give you an example and show
you the kinds of things that you can do.
So let's switch over to demo one.
Okay, so what we've got here is we've
got a very basic application.
There's a nib file which
we'll see when it runs,
but the nib file basically there's
a window with a text field.
There's nothing complicated in it.
We've got a pretty empty
application controller here.
So, actually I need my script.
and my script's gone.
Let's see if I can get one of my
helpers to bring my script up.
I do know the first several things.
So the first thing that we're
going to need is we're going to
need to include DiscRecording.h.
So we're using the
DiscRecording services,
so we're going to include DiscRecording.
Then,
once the application is done launching,
we're going to create--
We're going to basically create an
array which contains a copy of the
current devices that are attached.
And the reason why we're going to
do this is because when we call,
when we ask DiscRecording
for the list of devices,
we're going to get a list of exactly
what's connected at that instant.
But the thing is, we can't--
You can't really rely on that staying
the same from one moment to the
next because devices come and go.
So if you're going to
do something in your UI,
you need a separate
copy that you can say,
OK, I know the third device
represents this device.
Because if the second device
goes away in between when you
ask for the two sets of devices,
it can be a problem.
So we're going to keep our own
local copy of the device list.
So down here, we're going to sign
up for a notification.
We're going to sign up for
device disappeared notifications.
The reason we sign up for disappeared
notifications is so that we can
keep track of-- we're going to
sign up for disappeared before we
sign up for appeared notifications.
This is basically for
synchronization because,
again, if a device shows up
If a device disappears
once we've built the list,
then we'll get the
notification right away.
But we don't want to get into any
race conditions where we don't
find out about a device going away.
Then we're going to add the
device appeared notification.
So we've now signed up
with these two selectors,
and we've got these methods
that are going to be invoked
in our app controller.
Well,
so we're going to need those methods.
So here's the device appeared.
And all we're going to do,
it's a standard notification
response selector.
So we get it.
The object for the
notification is the device,
and we're going to add it to our list.
And we're going to go and
update the user interface.
So here we go.
Here's the device
disappeared notification.
And again,
we're just going to get the object,
remove it from our list,
and update our UI.
So this application is basically just
going to tell us a little bit about
every device connected to the system,
and it's going to respond
dynamically as things come and go.
So we've been calling update UI,
so we need to give
that an implementation.
So here's a little bit of stuff to
just enumerate our list of devices.
Going to loop through
and enumerate the list.
We're going to get device info.
The device info is static,
unchanging information about
the device describing its
capabilities and things like that.
Part of the info is the device's name.
We've got a nice thing that
gives you a nicely formatted
string describing the device.
The connection is also
here because the device is,
for example,
USB or FireWire or whatever else.
So we're going to get that.
Then we're going to look at the status.
And the status is things that can change.
So it's a snapshot of the
current status of the device.
From that,
we're going to pull out whether
the device is dead or not.
We're going to pull out the media state.
The media state can be empty,
in transition, which means the drive is
spinning up or spinning down,
or it can have media.
And then we're going
to get the media type.
So if there is media,
and that's where we get the media type.
So we're going to get the
media info dictionary,
which is a sub-dictionary
underneath the status.
We're going to pull out the media
type from the media info dictionary.
If there's no media,
then we'll have a special
string to indicate that.
Otherwise, the media is in transition and
it's spinning up or spinning down.
So what we're going to do then
is we're going to log all of this
information that we've gathered
basically directly from the device.
I'm going to log it into the text field.
I'm going to add it to the text
field and set it on the text field.
So we've just gone through,
looped through all devices,
built up this string describing
the state of the device,
and we're done.
and I think that's it for this one.
Let's see if it builds.
We've got a couple devices
connected to the machine over here.
And these devices,
we've got two FireWire devices plus
the internal drive on the machine.
So when it's ready to go, here we go.
So this is our very simple text field.
And so we've signed up
from the notifications.
So it's telling us all
about each of the things.
We've got the internal--
and I have a Toppy Pioneer drive.
We've got an external drive
connected over FireWire.
We've got another external
drive connected over FireWire.
None of them are busy.
None of them have any media.
So I'm going to change that.
Let's open one, stick media in, close it.
Are we getting our notifications?
Perhaps we're not.
Okay.
Well, there might be something
wonky with our notifications,
but we are getting the initial stuff.
Let's try that one more time
and just see what happens.
Let's eject this guy.
If he'll let us?
No?
Oh, I did not add-- you're right.
That's why we're not updating.
We aren't done with the demo yet.
So what we need to do
is go back over here.
So we've signed up for device appeared
and disappeared notifications,
but what we haven't signed up
for is media state changes.
So let's go up here to--
So we can detect when devices are there,
but we're not really noticing
what's happening to them.
So let's go up to device appeared.
When we get a device,
we're going to sign up for
notifications on the media.
So here we go.
We're adding another notification.
Again,
we just get the notification center,
add an observer.
signed up for device status
change notifications.
When a device disappears,
we're going to go down.
and remove the notification
that we've signed up for.
So we've just signed up for status
changed and removed ourselves.
So let's go down here.
Last but not least, we need to implement
the device state change.
So when the device state changes,
all we're going to do is
kick over and update the UI.
So now,
now that we've got all the code in there,
let's go ahead and compile it
and run it and see if we actually
pick up all of the notifications.
So here we go.
We've got our three drives.
We've got the FireWire drive,
or two FireWire drives.
One of them has a CD in it.
One of them doesn't.
So let's put something
in the bottom drive.
So it's in transition.
The drive is spinning up.
It's detecting whether there's media,
trying to see what it is.
And there we go.
It's noticed that there's CDR media.
and these drives might not
have functioning eject buttons.
So I guess we'll just leave
the media in there for now.
[Transcript missing]
So we've signed up for
notifications and we can watch
what's going on on the device.
If we were to do a burn in iTunes,
iTunes would cause it to flip
to device busy and so on.
So you can find out anything you need to
about the drives from the notifications.
And that's it for demo one.
So let's get back over
here to the slides.
Okay,
so we've talked about the burn engine.
Now we're going to zoom in on
some of the higher-level pieces.
We're going to talk
about content creation.
Content creation is where all the
helpers for creating content are.
So the problem with burning is that
you burn basically a data stream.
And formatting that data stream
can be kind of difficult.
So
If you're not up to
formatting that data stream,
we've got helpers to help you do that and
bring it into a more natural set of APIs.
So the content creation now
with Panther has two main parts.
There's one part that helps you
create file systems for data disks,
including ISO 9660, Joliet,
HFS+, and hybrids of any of those.
and there's also an audio helper
to help you take audio files,
MP3s, AAC files, whatever,
anything QuickTime can import
and burn them to an audio CD.
[Transcript missing]
The content framework or the
content creation APIs basically
contain things that
that cover their special
kinds of DR tracks.
They're DR tracks where we provide
the callback for you and we give
the data to the burn engine.
So DR file system track represents
a data track for a CD or DVD.
And you specify a file system hierarchy
that you want on the disk and we'll go
ahead and put it onto the disk for you.
And again,
this file system hierarchy is not
just let's burn a single folder.
We've got it hooked up so that you
can actually do anything you want.
And the objects are really very natural.
So we have file and folder objects.
And so for DR file objects, for example,
there's different ways to create them.
You can have them come from an existing
file on the hard disk somewhere.
You can have them come
from a data blob in memory.
Or you can specify your own
data through a callback routine.
So if you're getting
real-time sampling data,
you can send it straight to the drive
and have it actually show up as a file
rather than just raw data on the disk.
So the way it works is
you build your hierarchy.
You build a hierarchy of
file and folder objects,
and there's different kinds of objects.
So your files and folders can
be either real or virtual.
Well, let's talk about that
distinction for just a moment.
Real files and folders are
pretty much copied straight
from an existing file system.
So if you have a folder somewhere
or a file somewhere that you
just want to bring onto the disk,
you can go ahead and do that.
You can create a real file that
points to that and put it into
the hierarchy wherever you want.
It doesn't have to be
exactly where it was before.
You're specifying a brand new hierarchy.
So we'll pull stuff from
any portion of the disk,
bring it all together for you.
Objects can also be virtual.
That means they're entirely
created through the API.
That means they don't
exist on disk at all.
You might be specifying
the data at runtime.
You might be saying,
I just want this to be an empty file.
You can do whatever you want.
And that's all specified through the API.
So what we've got is we've really
got four classes of object.
We've got--
Real files, virtual files, real folders,
and virtual folders.
Now, the way this works is that three of
these are basically you have a hierarchy,
which is a tree, and the leaf nodes,
three of these are leaf nodes,
which means that they can't
have children added to them.
So real files and virtual files
obviously are files and can't
have anything added to them.
Real folders represent -- will bring
in what's underneath the folder,
but you can't actually add
children to them dynamically.
So the virtual folders are how you
really define your synthetic hierarchy.
So DiscRecording will take all of this
and will generate file systems for you.
And so the file systems we generate
have different naming conventions.
There's ISO 9660,
which has one convention, Joliet,
which has another,
HFS+, which has yet another.
And so the names can
be whatever you want,
but depending on what
names they happen to be,
they might not conform to
what the file system wants.
So DiscRecording will
automatically transform the
file names to make them legal,
to make them fit.
So that they conform to the standards.
However, we do this automatically,
but we don't just do it behind your back.
If you need to know the name of a file,
for example, to build a disc relative
path or something,
you can actually ask DiscRecording
and get the name for each file.
And you can even change
it if you need to.
If you don't like what
DiscRecording has done to it,
you can go ahead and change it
through your UI or programmatically.
So every object also has
a properties dictionary.
And the properties dictionary
for file system objects describes
the metadata on the object.
Things like permissions,
type and creator, owner group,
things like that.
And again, since every object has
a properties dictionary,
you can go into the properties
dictionary and override the
properties on real files,
real folders, virtual files,
virtual folders.
You can set all of these.
and obviously real files and real folders
will at first inherit the properties,
you know, the owner group permissions
type creator will inherit the
properties from the real file.
But then if you need to,
you can go in and override those,
change them, whatever you need to do.
Finally, each object in the
Content APIs has a mask.
And the mask determines the presence
of each object in each file system.
This is actually-- it's
a very simple concept,
but it leads to something pretty cool.
You can actually take objects and turn
them off in specific file systems.
Perhaps you're writing
a cross-platform game,
and you have a Windows executable
and a MacOS executable.
Well, you make the MacOS one only
show up in the HFS+ file system.
You make the Windows one
only show up in Joliet.
And that's really easy to do.
When you set a mask on the root folder,
that determines it basically carries
downward because obviously if a folder
doesn't include HFS+, none of its
children can really include HFS+ either.
So it carries downward and the way it
works is the root is what determines
what file systems will be on the disk.
So if you want a hybrid disk,
you set a mask on the root
folder that has a hybrid mask.
And even though we'll put all of these
objects in different file systems,
really the file data is
all shared between them.
You don't have three
copies of the file on disk.
You actually have just one copy
and you have essentially three
different views of the file data.
So now that we've sort
of gone over all that,
let's look at a real data track.
So up at the top, we've got the DR file
system track object.
And it basically just has-- it does have
properties which aren't labeled there,
but underneath it,
there are our hierarchy,
our tree of objects.
So we've got a DR folder,
which is our root folder.
We've got a couple of files.
We've got one real file
from somewhere on disk,
and we've got a virtual file
that we're going to be specifying
the data for at runtime.
We've got a real folder
which automatically brings in
everything underneath that folder.
And then we've got a virtual folder.
So we've got a couple of real files,
another real folder.
And so DiscRecording
can take this hierarchy,
these files,
like these real files that are up here,
the real folders, they don't have to be
in this tree already.
They can be anywhere on disk.
In fact, with virtual files,
they don't have to be on disk at all.
You can really build a synthetic file
system from pretty much anything,
and it's really pretty powerful.
So that's the file system stuff.
Now, new in Panther,
we have DR Audio Track.
DR Audio Track is a set of helper
APIs for creating a Redbook audio track,
just a standard audio CD track,
which you can play in your CD player.
And it will import any file
that QuickTime can read.
So you don't have to
write the decompressors.
You don't have to write stuff to
translate it into the CDDA format.
We'll do it for you.
So movies, AIFFs, waves, MP3s, AAC files.
As QuickTime moves forward and
is able to import more stuff,
this will be able to import more stuff.
And again, this is new in Panther.
So an audio burn,
an audio track by itself
is not that exciting,
so we decided to put a
whole audio burn up here.
So again, we've got the burn object up
at the top with the properties.
And DRAudioTrack, again,
is just a special type of DR track
where we provide the callback.
And we've got a set of files up here.
So we've got an MP3 file, an AIFF,
and an AEC file.
And when you burn this,
DiscRecording will just write out
a three-track audio CD containing
the music from those files.
So let's talk about the user interface.
That's the third component.
The user interface provides a common
interface for burning and erasing.
There are setup panels for
setting up a burn and erase.
And we handle device selection.
We handle all the logic of
keeping track of state changes.
If a user plugs in a device
while the panel is up,
the panel will notice.
If the user unplugs the device,
all that code's been written,
so you don't have to do it.
And we also provide a standard set of
options for pretty much anything a user
would want to do for burning and erasing.
And we also provide
standardized progress panels.
You may have seen them in
Disc Copy and other applications.
Just pretty much a progress bar.
Keeps track of things.
Can be presented as a sheet on your
window or as a standalone panel.
We provide a set of icons if you
happen to need them for your interface.
And the user interface is accessible
from both Cocoa and Carbon.
And last year, we promised that we were
going to get it in Carbon,
we were going to make
it available in Carbon,
and it didn't quite
make it for the release,
so here it is for real.
And so we're going to take
the content and the UI.
We're going to bring them together and
build a pretty full-featured burning
application in just a few lines of code.
So let's go ahead and
switch back to demo one.
So unfortunately,
this is not quite as easy as, say,
writing a web browser,
because we're going to have
to actually write some code.
We can't do it entirely
in Interface Builder yet.
So what we've got--
and I will now move over to demo two.
So what we've got,
For this demo is we've basically
got a very simple app controller.
We've added a few skeleton
methods to pick files.
If you're familiar with NSOpenPanel,
which you may be,
then this will generally not
be a big surprise to you.
And other than that,
we've got this empty user interface
with a couple of big buttons on it.
Nice big buttons, here they are.
And they don't do much, yet.
So here we are.
We've got -- so each of these buttons,
there's one hooked up to
each of these methods.
So let's go through.
So we go up to the top.
We're going to include
our DiscRecording headers.
DiscRecording UI is a separate framework,
so we're going to import that separately.
I'm going to go down
past the open panels,
Down to here.
And we're going to go ahead
and create an audio disc.
Well, how do we create an audio disc?
Well, the first thing is we're going
to ask the user for some files.
And once we've got that,
we're going to loop through the files.
enumerate through them.
We're going to create a
DR track for each file.
and so we're not actually doing error
checking here because this is a demo,
but if we were doing error checking,
the DRTrack creation method would return
nil if QuickTime can't read the file.
So we're going to look at all those.
Then we are going to invoke our method,
which we're going to
create in just a moment,
for creating a disk.
So we're going to burn the layout.
We've created all the tracks in an array.
and I have added all those to an array
and we're going to burn that as a layout.
So then we're going to go up to here.
So we've called this method on
ourselves burnLayoutWithDescription.
Well, we need to create that method.
So what do we do inside that method?
Well, first thing we're going to
do is create a setup panel.
Setup panel is where the
user sets up the burn.
We've created the setup panel,
and we're just going to run it.
There are options you can set on it,
but we don't really
need to set any options.
We're happy with the defaults,
so we're just going to run it.
And if the user hits OK, well,
then we're going to go
ahead and do the burn.
And we do the burn by
creating a progress panel.
We're going to put our
description into the panel.
and then we're going to go ahead
and tell the panel to start up.
So it begins the progress panel.
We get the burn object
straight from the setup panel.
The setup panel pre-configures
a burn object according to
whatever the user has selected.
So if the user says they
don't want to verify
That property is already
set in the burn object.
And we pass in the layout
that came into this method.
and that's actually all we
need for burning the layout.
We're going to run the setup panel,
we're going to set the description,
then we're going to
start the progress panel.
So there's not much code there.
So we could compile and run and
create an audio disc right now.
But let's go ahead and do
the data disc creation.
and I are going to show you
how to create a data disk.
We're going to call our method
that brings up an open panel,
select some data files.
We're going to go through the files.
We're going to create a virtual folder.
For now, since this is a demo,
we're just going to give it
a standard name of our own.
We'll take every file
that the user selects,
loop through them,
And look at it.
Figure out whether it's
a file or a directory.
And if it's a directory,
then we create a DR folder.
This creates a real DR folder.
Otherwise,
we're going to create a DR file.
So we're going to take
whatever the user selects,
throw it into one virtual folder.
at the root of the volume.
And there we go.
We're going to add it to
the root folder of the disk.
And so we're setting an
explicit file system mask here.
And this controls, again,
which file systems are generated.
So for example,
if we wanted HFS-- the default is
actually to create a cross-platform disk,
which would be HFS+, ISO 9660,
and Joliet.
If we wanted to, we could say, OK,
I don't want--
I don't want HFS+, we're just
going to do an Isojoliet disk.
You can really pretty much do any
combination and we'll just generate
the file systems that you ask for.
Once we've done that,
we're going to again call our method.
We're going to create
the track right here,
DR track, track for root folder.
Boom, we've got a file system.
and we're going to invoke
our method to burn that,
bring up the setup panel
and do the progress.
And that's all.
So, let's go ahead and build this.
So what we've done is with
just this little bit of code,
we've created an application
that can burn an audio CD,
can burn a data CD,
can really burn pretty
much anything you need.
and I are going to show you how
to use this little bit of code to
select files and bring up the panels.
So let's run it.
So here we go.
Here's our interface.
So we've got our two buttons.
Well,
let's go ahead and create an audio disc.
Happen to have some music right here.
select the files,
brings up the burn setup panel.
So the burn setup panel, again,
You can have options to set the speed,
you have whether to verify or not,
whether you want to eject
or mount after the burn.
We're just going to leave those
pretty much straightforward.
There's already media
loaded in the drive,
so let's just go ahead and burn.
So there we go,
and we're burning an audio CD.
That was easy.
Well, let's go ahead and burn a
data CD while we're at it.
So go over here.
Let's go to Panther.
and others.
We've selected three items.
And what this is going to do is it's
going to bring those all together.
and others.
Here's our set-up panel.
We're ready to burn.
and I will be doing a little bit
of a demo of how we can do that.
There we go.
So the audio disk is going over here.
The data disk is building
the file systems.
and I are here to talk
about the new Carbon API.
We've created an application
that can burn audio discs and
data discs and it just works.
Which is really pretty cool.
Okay.
So let's switch back to the slides.
and it really is just that simple.
That much code, burning audio CDs,
you're burning data CDs.
It's really cool.
Okay, so now we're going to talk
about device profiles,
those of you that maybe
may be involved with creating
and bundling hardware.
You're going to be interested in this.
So this is something that's--
this is the new way that device
support is going to work.
and Apple is adopting this for
ourselves and we're giving this
to you for you to hook into.
So let's talk about what
device profiles are.
So device profiles are
a way for manufacturers,
bundlers of drives to add
support for their own drives.
Without or with reduced
interaction from Apple.
So if you've been in this situation,
you kind of know what has to happen.
You have to send drives in,
then you have to wait,
and then we have to do the work,
and you have to wait.
And it's no fun for you.
It's no fun for us.
And we kind of want to make it
a lot easier and a lot smoother.
So what we're going to
do is a device profile
and many others.
This is a text file and it's an XML plist
file that lives on the hard drive.
It contains two sets of things.
If you're familiar
with kernel extensions,
it's very similar to the way
that works in that there's a
dictionary describing the matching,
and that's called the
personality for the profile.
And then after we've got
the matching criteria,
we've got the actual
data for the profile.
In each file,
we've got information on how the device
interprets the MMC specifications.
If there happen to be any bugs,
God forbid, or quirks in the firmware,
as there occasionally are,
if 1.0 wasn't quite perfect but
the drive got released anyway,
you can mark what's broken
and still get it to work.
If there are any quirks,
such as we'll try to ask
the drive what it supports,
but if the drive doesn't support
it correctly or DiscRecording can't
quite figure out what's going on,
then you can help us along by
telling us in the profile what
the drive does and doesn't do.
So Device Profile Editor is an
application that's going to be released
that creates these profile files and
they're and even though they're p lists
we want to we want you to use the device
profile editor because you know the
format is a pretty complicated plist
and we don't want to have any mistakes
you don't have to dig in there with
property list editor where you're going
to get this nice ui and the device
profile letter will be responsible
for validating profiles so it'll when
you tell when you tell us like what
the drive supports we're going to run
a battery of tests against the drive
make sure that disk recording really
can talk to the device so it's kind
of eliminates a lot of the testing makes
it automatic gets rid of some of the
support hassles and this is going to be a
requirement for you know official support
So without further ado,
let's do a demo of the
device profile editor.
Switch back over to demo one.
and here it is.
Here's the device profile editor.
So we're a vendor, say we're
Say we're Example Co.
and we're working on a CDRW 9000.
Well, if we've shipped that under
any other vendor names,
perhaps generic or perhaps we've
shipped it with no vendor name at all,
then you can indicate that here.
You can pretty much list any of
the alternate vendor names that you
may have rebranded the drive as.
Then we've got the basic feature support.
In general,
DiscRecording will try to use MMC and
auto-detect all of this stuff,
but occasionally there's something
that the drive does or doesn't
do that DiscRecording won't be
able to automatically sense.
So you can leave everything on AutoSense.
In fact, for the CDRW 9000,
we'll just say that we'll
leave everything on AutoSense
and we'll run the tests.
And if it works, then great.
So the one thing that we do need
down here is if the device--
DiscRecording has a couple of things.
All Sony drives have a couple
of characteristics in common.
All Pioneer drives have a couple
We know a little bit about
drives from various vendors.
So if there's a device that's
from a particular vendor,
it helps to know that.
So you can put the actual
vendor name in here.
And that helps
DiscRecording a little bit.
For example,
if you've rebranded the drive,
you can tell us who it
actually comes from.
And then we'll make sure we
get the right stuff in there.
So various things,
if you happen to know that
there are some drives that can't
handle particular CDB commands,
if that happens, then
Then you can go ahead and exclude
them and tell DiscRecording never
send this command because the drive
might hang the bus or otherwise wedge.
If we have different options,
parameters that drive can't handle,
if there's CD burn speeds
that it can't handle,
or if you want to enumerate
just the good speeds,
you can include them.
And so you'll create
the profile with this.
You can actually create more than one.
So let's go ahead and create another one.
Again, this is Example Co., CDRW5000.
Let's say the CDRW 5000
is an older drive.
It might report that it
does session at once,
but it was kind of broken
and this recording can't
really talk to it very well.
So we're going to
disable session at once.
and perhaps it doesn't
report DVD support correctly.
Well,
we'll disable all the DVD burning too.
And then you can run your battery
of tests against this and again,
if it all works,
then it passes and you can,
it'll create a file, a DR profile file,
which you can save.
So that's our example code drive support.
And we can install that with an installer
or even have the user do it themselves.
And then DiscRecording will
be able to burn to that drive.
And again, this is a Panther thing.
So it's new in Panther.
And we're still kind of working on it.
So we would really like
feedback on how it all works.
Okay,
so we're running just a little bit over,
so let's kick back to the slides.
All right.
So if you're interested in
the device profile editor,
come up to us after the session.
Give us your card.
We'll get you on a list.
and we'll see that to you when it's
ready for actual testing and we'll
get you on a list for feedback.
So developer resources,
we've got a lot of sample code
in both C and Objective-C.
The sample code covers audio
and data burning and erasing.
We're going to try to get--
we've got some new sample code,
and we're going to try to get the demos
that we just did up as sample code.
There's the URL to the sample code.
We've also got a public mailing
list in which you can get on,
ask your questions.
It's good to ask your questions in public
because someone else may have already
had the problem you're having or someone
else may encounter it in the future.
And it's all archived so
people can search the archives
and get help that way.
So we've got documentation,
DiscRecording services, and it's--
I believe it's also under Cocoa.
We're kind of a technology
that's both Carbon and Cocoa.
So this path says that we're in Carbon,
but also on connect.apple.com,
we've got some new reference
documentation for Panther only,
and that's under connect.apple.com
because it's Panther and
it's under NDA for now.
and I will bring Patrick back
up to do the wrap-up.
To follow up, as Drew was mentioning,
that we do want to get all your feedback.
So the contact information up above
would be the best way to do that and
primarily go through me and then I can
disseminate it to the appropriate
engineers and keep everything in order.
But this is something we're
really excited about with Panther.
And anyone that has to go through the
process of getting Drive certified
will see all the benefits.
So, anyway, um...
So there's a few sessions that you
might be interested in as well.
Audio formats, today at 5:00.
Cocoa user interface programming,
tomorrow.
QuickTime and enhanced CDs,
which is Thursday at 10:30.
And writing threaded applications.
So if you want to stay on this subject,
please attend those.